Why is an engineer different from a programmer?

This article provide an insight into both professions.

1. Engineering. What does it even mean?

Oxford Dictionary: The branch of science and technology concerned with the design, building, and use of engines, machines, and structures.
We are not scientists. We are not lawyers. We don't have a passion in theorizing about how the universe was born or how climate change is going to kill us all. And we absolutely don't want to mingle with the big boys and big girls so as to sway them left and right about the line of right and wrong. So what are we? What do we even do? What is our reason of existence?

When the word engineering was first coined, ... (origin)

And now, engineering becomes this one-size-fit-all cap that everybody can wear: it's attached to every single profession around us: software engineering, bioengineering, chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, construction engineering, social engineering, cyber engineering... to name a few. So many that in order to find a meaning to this word, it can only be described as: "things we do as human." And everything we do can be described in 3 basic words: "design, build and destroy." The idea that separates us from any other organisms in the cosmos is soly relied on the fact that we can design and build the tools, which are utilized to design and build other tools. This notion of being able to build on top of what's already there gives us everything that defines...us: memory, history and technology.
Hence, it can be said that engineers are the people who have the ability to "design, build and destroy" things. 
To answer the last question about our reason of existence, however, is a bit tricky. Human is an incredibly autonomous and diverse species. People own their ideas, their aspirations, their believes and their political views. Due to this unique level of diversity, it is very easy for one man to see the differences in another. This is a gift and a bane in itself. Differences allow creativity, variety, and knowledge to thrive. Without them, we may as well be machines in an auto shop knowing only one thing, doing it over and over, and living at one place or two for the rest of our lives. However, differences also create incongruity, inequality and ignorance. Since the dawn of the human era, we, as an entire species, rarely act the same way, or look at each other with the same level of respect, or be aware of others' different perspectives due to their unique circumstances. And this is where engineers come in to play: our job is to reduce incongruity, inequality and ignorance as much as possible because in order to introduce a product, whether it be a software, a car, or a rocket, into the market, we often have to consider how would different people perceive our product, try to make it so that everybody with circumstance X have the same experience and achieve a goal that all of the user should be able to reach.
With that said, however, it is a sin to say that we engineers have done a good job. Many of the things we built create more inequality and more ignorance. But then, this is article is not a moral debate about good vs. evil. However, I will say that whenever I refer to "engineers", I do mean good engineers, those who are in service of mankind.

2. Software Engineers vs. Programmers

Software Engineers are programmers but programmers are not software engineers. Software Engineers do not act only as a programmer, they act as engineers, the group of people described above. They don't just sit down at their desks and write code. However, they have to go through all the things which an engineer have to go through when he try to push a product to the market: design for the masses, ensure public safety and security as long as people use his product, be responsible for the bugs he creates, stand in trials if he violates the law, and make the code base maintainable for other engineers. Software Engineers often spend a lot of time dealing with other people -- programming is only 1/3 of their actual job description.

